# BOOST_ALEKSEY_GURTOVOY_STRINGOUT_v00

- - - -
filmed Date: 2025-12-03  
location: Iowa City, IA  
camera: A / B  
audio: Lav  
type: INTERVIEW  
video link: ​​https://vimeo.com/1156275720/f5e597eef1?share=copy&fl=sv&fe=ci  
summary: Aleksey is a great Russian accented cyberpunk character who made a great case for Formal Review's power, using his own story of Boost.MPL as the through-line.  

- - - - 

[00:00:00] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So my name is Aleksey Gurtovoy, and I, uh, was one of the, um, early Boost contributors, uh, at the time One Boost wasn't, uh, very well known. And my, um, probably biggest contribution, uh, was that I'm the original author of the, um, boost Meta Program in library. So anyway, so, you know, so we kind [00:00:30] of did an equivalent of that.

[00:00:31] **RAY NOWOSIELSKI:** Can we just go to what is, what is, so what're hoping this might actually be entertaining for a general audience? We pull it off, right? The, the tech people will definitely come, but the general audience. How, is there any way to explain what is meta programming to a normie who's not a coder out there? And how would you try to do that?

[00:00:53] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** That's a really interesting question. What me think? So if I were.[00:01:00] 

[00:01:03] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** If I ever try to try to explain meta programming to a regular person, um, well, I'll try. You know, I, uh, it, it is a little hard because to truly appreciate it, you, you know, you kind of have to experience programming, right? Like, not just understand what programming it is, but you know, to Absolutely. Well, I wasn't sure where I was going anyways.

[00:01:28] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, I think it's possible. [00:01:30] So, so let me think. Explain meta programming to, um, a person who hasn't experienced programming. I would say so, you know, typically, uh, the way programming is explained to people, you know, it's, uh, a recipe or a set of steps that you give to a computer, you know, to. To execute in order to achieve a certain task.[00:02:00] 

[00:02:00] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, um, I think it's a, you know, it's a very fair, very solid explanation. Meta programming, you know, as the prefix meta kind of implies it, it goes a step beyond that. And it's basically, I would explain it from, from the standpoint of what it's for, or at least what it's for. You know, why, you know, why I got into it and what was the, the [00:02:30] fascinating and the, you know, and the, the, like, the most, the most cool thing about it.

[00:02:34] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And that was being able, so typically when you, you know, when you, um, program a computer, you are given a set of tools, uh, to do so, and you know, it's a language usually, you know, you, you, you program in a specific language and the language kind of gives. And algebra for expressing your thoughts. You know, it gives you a vocabulary and a set of concepts, [00:03:00] and you get familiar, you know, you familiarize yourself with this, this thoughts, and, and, and as you get full into the language, you become better and better at expressing your intent, you know, in this particular language and different languages.

[00:03:16] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** They give you different capabilities, you know, for expressing yourself something, say, easier in one language than another, which is, you know, the whole reason why different languages exist. The coolest thing about meta programming is so typically a language [00:03:30] like that set of concepts and that set of, you know, constructs that they can use, typically it's fixed.

[00:03:37] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So, you know, the language gives you a fixed vocabulary of, you know, concept and, and, and, and, and, and, and, uh, uh, operations on, you know, on those concepts. And, uh, those are building blocks. And you can, you know, you can build with them and if the language is flexible enough, you know, you can build some really cool stuff that, that gives [00:04:00] you back kind of the feeling of, you know, yes, it solves the problem, but also it's kind of beautiful, you know, that like this thing that I built, you know, it kind of, it kind of actually reflects the thought process.

[00:04:13] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, and it's very understandable. And there is like an innate, you know, just an innate quality to it that you, as, you know, as a creator, you, you, you get a kick out and what, but, you know, without meta programming like this, those building [00:04:30] blocks there, they're kind of, uh, still rough. And so you, you can have to squint a little bit and, and when you look at what you created, you know, you kind of have to squint a little bit to, to see the beauty or, you know, through, to truly feel like that you expressed what you wanted to express in, you know, in the way that you.

[00:04:50] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, ideally desired. And what meta programming allows you is to effectively modify the language [00:05:00] itself, you know, modify the vocabulary and to, to a degree, you know, modify the set of concepts that you're working with so that you can express yourself, you know, with a finer degree of precision and with a, you know, with a finer control over details and, you know, possibly, maybe you are catching more programming mistakes or it's, it's just easier to express what you want to express.

[00:05:29] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And when someone looks [00:05:30] at it, you know, they like, it takes them, you know, three seconds to understand what's going on versus, you know, it. Three minutes before, and, and the fact that you did it all by yourself, right? You didn't have to invent a new language. Uh, you didn't have to, you know, go to a compiler writer and, and, and, and, you know, and beg them to create a feature that would allow you this particular type of expression.

[00:05:58] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Or you didn't have to, [00:06:00] you know, typically, like if, if, if you are, uh, faced with the problem and you really wanna kind of get your own vocabulary and get your own, uh, expressive medium, you, you just go outside of the language and you create what's called, you know, the domain specific language for expressing the thing that you wanna express.

[00:06:19] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** But with meta programming, you don't have to do it. You, you know, if you're working on a language like C++ that, that, that has those extensive capabilities, you can remain [00:06:30] within the language and yet invent your own language in a way. And, uh, is just, you know, it's, it. Uh, well first of all, it's just really intoxicating us, you know, as an, as an engineer or as a programmer who is working on the code, you know, to be able to do it.

[00:06:47] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, uh, I think CO po is really the first and the most widely used industrial language, you know, that is actually used in the industry that has this sort of capability. There are [00:07:00] certainly, you know, academic languages and research languages that have, uh, arguably, you know, uh, greater meta programming capabilities or, you know, maybe, maybe more sound, you know, from, from, from like, uh, never been done before.

[00:07:18] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So, boost, uh, start, it's a set of libraries, set of, uh, C++ libraries that, uh, was originally devised as a, [00:07:30] uh, vehicle to. Uh, get more libraries standardized. Uh, so C++ is, uh, an open language that, you know, that has international, uh, that that is gathered by an international standardization process.

[00:07:48] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So there, you know, that, that means that, you know, typically it's not a proprietary language. So if it's a proprietary language, uh, governance is simple. You know, [00:08:00] if, if, uh, Microsoft say, you know, wants to add something to Sharp, uh, they just go and add it. You know, they don't have to consult anyone. They don't have to.

[00:08:10] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I mean, typically they would maybe, you know, post a request for comments or something like that. But, you know, typically it's, it's, you know, it's, it's, it's an easy person. C++ was, uh, when it became popular and. You know, really basically mainstream, one of the primary ways of building [00:08:30] software. You know, one of the things that happened to it is it, you know, it, it became gathered by, uh, an international standard.

[00:08:39] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And on one hand it gave it, you know, stability and it gave it a lot of the things that, uh, you want in an open language. When you have multiple vendors designing compilers for it, you, you know, you want comp compatibility between compilers. You want to be able, you know, to take code that you wrote, say for Windows and [00:09:00] compile it on a Mac or compiled on Linux.

[00:09:03] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, uh, but those kind of things came with the downside that if you wanted to, if you wanted the language to have a richer set of libraries, well now they need to go through the standardization process. That means that, you know, a bunch of experts in the room have to agree that. Uh, a library say for, um, talking to a network, you know, going and [00:09:30] fetching something from the internet or you know, com communicating over the internet, like that type of library that it act, you know, that has been proposed is actually, uh, the best way, quote unquote, to do something.

[00:09:42] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And that when you have, you know, 20 people, highly opinionated people, you know, highly technical, top of the field people in the room, it's a very hard thing to do. You know, to to, to standardize something. Boost was meant as a way to solve the, [00:10:00] you know, the standardization problem that c Plus has had at the time, uh, um, by creating a kind of like a playground or a sandbox for the libraries that not only, you know, solve a problem and do it well, but that are they, you know, the authors.

[00:10:21] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Would know that, you know, if they're creating it, uh, within this environment and, you know, with the help of this group [00:10:30] of people, uh, there is a good chance that the library could be put on a track for standardization. And that would mean that, you know, if, if, if it ever were to stand, get standardized, then the whole community would benefit from it.

[00:10:46] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Boost it is, okay, let me, let me, let me, let me try trade different way. So I think the primary problem that Boost was trying to solve is that, you know, [00:11:00] despite C++ being the most used when commercially used to create commercial software at the time, uh, it had its library support was, uh, really whacking and it.

[00:11:18] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Probably was the, you know, the, if you, if you survey the user base, the C++ user base at the time, uh, that would be the number one complaint about the language. You know, what, [00:11:30] what does c os plus need to remain relevant and, you know, and, and, and, uh, continue being, you know, the tool that is the tool of choice for, for, for most people.

[00:11:44] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And that thing was more libraries and specifically, you know, more standard libraries, or at the very least the libraries that, uh, that work well with the standard library. The thing that made boosts stand out, I think, uh, [00:12:00] well it, it was a couple of things. I mean, uh, the, probably the number one thing was, oh, it was a combination of, uh, the vision of, hey, we actually.

[00:12:13] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You gonna take a crack at this problem of standardization. Uh, and we are gonna do it in the intentional way, and there is a good chance that we'll succeed because we are, you know, the people who are closest to it. You know, because Boost was [00:12:30] started by people who were already members of the standardization committee.

[00:12:36] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** They knew the ins and out of that process, they knew, you know, the criteria. And so the fact that they, you know, put out a call outer for people to gather around and, you know, and try to do this thing, uh, like the initial signal, Hey, it's not, you know, it's not just like random, you know, developer who is saying, I'm gonna start [00:13:00] this project and, you know, and they're gonna have those library standardized.

[00:13:03] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Those are actually people who are already involved in the standardization, uh, process and. Uh, they know what they're talking about. I think that was, uh, the, you know, one of the initial important things, why it, uh, gained traction, you know, and what, why it was sparked interest. Okay. Uh, the second thing I would say is, uh, [00:13:30] just the personalities of people that were involved and they, you know, and the passion and they, the way that the community was structured, uh, and, and the culture of the main mailing list.

[00:13:45] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, it was very welcoming and it was, you know, raic in, you know, in the best possible sense. Meteor, tragic. I'm probably mispronouncing it. Merit meritocratic. Meritocratic. Yes. Marial. [00:14:00] Meritocratic. So the second thing, um,

[00:14:06] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I. The, the reason that I say, you know, the, the culture was meritocratic is because, well, my personal example, I, I think, you know, or my personal story I think is actually, is a good example. So when, you know, when I joined the Boost list, which was somewhere in December, I think 1998, uh, there were already [00:14:30] probably around 40 people on there.

[00:14:32] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** The majority of people on the list were, you know, uh, C++ standardization committee members, uh, compiler writers, people with, you know, at least 10, 15 orphan, you know, 20 years of experience. Uh, and I was, you know, 21-year-old, not a native speaker, you know, with, uh, um, broken English, uh, but [00:15:00] very. Much in wealth with the language and, you know, well versed enough in the language that, that, that, that I, you know, my contribution, uh, was, you know, somewhere on the level of, of, of, you know, the people who, who, who were there, you know, from the technical standpoint.

[00:15:19] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So, so like, the fact that, you know, I, I, I didn't have experience, didn't matter the fact that I, you know, this was probably my [00:15:30] first like, mailing list experience altogether. And there is a certain, you know, protocols or advocates of, you know, being on the mailing list and how you ask questions and how you respond and all of that, you know, was, I, I was not very familiar with.

[00:15:48] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, uh, I think if you read my early pause, like. Some of them are definitely cringe-worthy and it didn't matter. None of it mattered. The, you know, the, the, uh, and I think [00:16:00] David [ Abrahams] took me under his wing early on where, you know, I would post something and whatever I post, uh, I would get a reply so it wouldn't, you know, post in, in the void.

[00:16:10] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Which, you know, typically what happens in a internet forum of, you know, someone who is a little bit off, you know, they post something and they just get ignored. 'cause, you know, people don't have time for, for, you know, someone who doesn't know, uh, all the rules and, and whatnot. And, and, and Boost was the, the opposite of [00:16:30] it.

[00:16:30] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, and you know, it didn't only apply to me, but pretty much anyone who posted their, uh, this an idea for a library or, you know, a suggestion for, um, how to improve an existing library or, you know, just any sort of. Uh, thing would, you know, they would get a reply and the healthy discussion would ensue and, and it didn't matter, you know, where, where you came from, what mattered is your love for the [00:17:00] language and, you know, your common, like the thing that everyone there shared, which is, you know, to see, uh, this language continue being, uh, used and, you know, and, and, and get joy out of using it on a daily basis.

[00:17:16] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And through, you know, through creating new libraries. The meritocracy was, you know, it, it didn't, it didn't matter who you were, what mattered is that you could, you know, you could write a good C++ library. [00:17:30] And, um, and I think, uh, you know, that, that the roots of it go back to probably, you know, the earliest hacker culture.

[00:17:41] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, like back at MIT, but it, it, it is, it is, it is not a thing that Unique is unique to Boost per se, but I think the fact that Boost had, it helped a lot to, you know, to get to, to get at the traction that, that [00:18:00] it got. Well I think, you know, those, those two things, they, I mean there's definitely, uh, there was definitely an element of work to the whole thing or timing maybe.

[00:18:11] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Um, but, but those two things, you know, the fact that, uh, the group of people who started it, they already had some street cred, uh, and then the environment was very productive and very welcoming and the vision was something that, [00:18:30] you know, there was definitely a need for it in the community. And so it have automatically started attracting talent from the community.

[00:18:40] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** That, you know, people may be previously doing something on their own or, you know, they, they weren't even doing anything on their own because, you know, there was just no medium for, you know, for self-express. Like effectively it created this medium for self-expression specifically, you know, in regards to creating a [00:19:00] swipers for C++ that previously didn't exist.

[00:19:03] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, and there were certainly a huge number of, you know, counted C++ developers, uh, in engineers out there who were more than, uh, interested, very much interested in, you know, in in, in helping the language to succeed. But they, you know, they just, they just didn't have a forum and Boost gave them that forum.

[00:19:28] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And then suddenly, you [00:19:30] know, you got people like Peter Giov, who I think to this day is probably one of them, you know, most active contributors to. Uh, you know, and then his, in his short bio, you know, he kind of humorously, uh, says something along the lines, uh, I love CPO plus, you know, almost to the point of willing to give up Akin Kidney for my favorite feature.

[00:19:54] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You know, something along the lines, uh, uh, uh, Peter Dimov [00:20:00] is, uh, a brilliant engineer from, uh, Hungary. I think he is Hungary. Oh, you know, that's a good question. One of those, you know, Eastern European countries. I consider all, you know, all, uh, Slavic people to be brothers in. So, you know, he's, uh, he's one of the SUA people.

[00:20:19] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** But, uh, so Peter Dimov is, uh, you know, Peter Dimov, is a, a brilliant, uh, C++, developer, uh, that [00:20:30] I think he joined Boost around the same time as I did, may maybe a little bit later. Uh, but he's. A very prolific contributor to boost his, I think an author of at least half a dozen Boost wide. And, you know, and contributor to, to probably five times as much.

[00:20:51] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** A lot of his wide ended up being standardized. Uh, and, um, he's just generally, uh, a very, [00:21:00] uh, one of the very prominent contributors. And, and, and, uh, you got, you know, a couple of people like that. I, I like helping people. Uh, and I think it would be also, I mean, you are doing it regardless, and I think it would be like, you know, a shame if like, you didn't have enough material or, you know, this, this like, ended up not representative.

[00:21:20] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So you know, if I could help you given material. Um, uh, uh, uh, like for me, boost is really like holds a very [00:21:30] special. Place in my heart still, even though, you know, I haven't, I haven't been involved for, for more over dec decade. And, uh, I, yeah, I, it was, you know, uh, definitely a period defining experience for me, you know, for, for 10 or 15 years like that, that was like if you, you know, if you took that away, I, you know, I, well, first of all, I wouldn't be the same person, but also, you know, I would be just, [00:22:00] uh, it's like, um, it's not dissimilar to like, if you have a started at a company, you know, and then, uh, you know, you saw it making that like a big impact.

[00:22:10] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, uh, it's, you know, it's not a commercial venture, but it is a venture of changing the world and, you know, and it was very, uh, very fun and very defining. Well, I mean, David Abrahams is obviously, uh, you know, the, the primary [00:22:30] person that I would. Try to get a story from uh, uh, why is that obvious? He's, well, for one, you know, he's, he's officially on Jeita, you know, being one of the three Boost co-founders, if you will.

[00:22:48] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, you know, like the three people who got the whole thing started and, but between him and Beman, they, you know, they, they, they were, they were the people, [00:23:00] you know, they were those people that always reply to you. They were the people who always give you feedback, encouragement, you know, criticism, uh, you know, whatever it is that was needed for you, you know, to, to, to, to go forward.

[00:23:17] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Okay. And, and, and, you know, and he's also, you know, very prolific contributor. He, he, um. Probably touched, you know, every early Boost [00:23:30] Library. Um, uh, and generally, I mean, for a while he also, he, he run a, a Boost consultancy, so, you know, he Boost Pro. Yeah. So, you know, he, he actually, uh, you know, made, made, made a living, uh, doing Boost, uh, consult consulting around Boost.

[00:23:55] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So it, you know, it was a very, I mean, I'm speaking for him, but it was a very big part [00:24:00] of, you know, of his wife. Then there were people who were, you know, who, who like in my mind, you know, they, they really made a big contribution. You know, maybe not necessarily that they were there from beginning to end or that they were, they were always active, but that, you know, when they were active, they contribution was.

[00:24:24] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You know, was not about, and or, you know, outsized. So there were a couple of corners store [00:24:30] libraries that, you know, that opinions will matter on what they are. But that, you know, in my mind, stand out as those, those, those, those, you know, those libraries that the kind of iconic for Boost, you know, what is Boost known for.

[00:24:45] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, and so the authors of those libraries, you know, in my mind again, they, you know, they, they deserve to be in a gallery or, you know, on the wall of fame of Boost. You know, maybe they just contribute to this library and that's, you know, [00:25:00] and that's, and otherwise they were just working on the mailing list or it didn't matter.

[00:25:05] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Just the fact that they contributed that library, you know, changed the character of the language or, you know, changed. Like, add it to the character of Boost and add it to the iconic image of Boost. And therefore, you know, they, they, they, they, um, like very much deserve to the recognition. So I'll name the libraries, uh, 'cause the, you know, I, well first of all, uh, [00:25:30] butcher the names, but also I don't remember all the names.

[00:25:33] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, but Boost Lamda was one of the, one of the libraries that, that, you know, that ended up becoming a core language feature. So it was, you know, it was a, a library that added capability to, uh, create functions, define functions kind of on the fly in a very compact way. And it was something that was sorely missing [00:26:00] from the language because, uh, you know, one of the official Boost, or not official Boost, well, official Boost guidelines were, you know, libraries.

[00:26:11] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** For submission was libraries that work well with the Standard Library, but the standard library really was like, that's the official name, you know, the, the standard C++ library. But there is a core to the standard C++ library that used to be called STL, which is called, you know, [00:26:30] uh, which stood for Standard Template Library, uh, created by uh, uh, a guy named, uh, Alexander Stepanov, I think.

[00:26:40] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, uh, that library was seminal to, you know, to, to C++ evolution. And, um, and it's a whole different story, you know, how it got standardized and whatnot. But, uh, that library was a library of algorithms, uh, working on, uh, a variety of different [00:27:00] data structures and, uh, and notion of algorithm came hand to hand with the notion of, uh, uh.

[00:27:09] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Function or like a, a operation that can be executed, uh, as a part of the algorithm, but the language itself lacked an ergonomic way to define those fact, uh, s and boost one, the used some of the meta [00:27:30] programming capabilities in the language to effectively fill the void, you know, in the core language at the library level.

[00:27:39] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, you know, it wasn't quite as ergonomic as, you know, if the, if it was done in the, in the language itself, but it was way, you know, more ergonomic than, than, you know, than without this library. And it was, I also just unbelievably cool that you could build this kind of [00:28:00] capability with what's already in the language, you know, at, at the, at the, at the Asio library.

[00:28:06] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And I think it. You know, the, the fact that you could do it and the fact that it was useful and practical, uh, just blew a lot of people's minds and kind of just expand digital Horizon. Well, if you can, you know, build this kind of thing, I wonder, you know, if we apply the same techniques to, you know, to a [00:28:30] different domain, what we can do.

[00:28:32] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, and so, and so the, you know, uh, then as a part of Boost Lamda, another thing that came out is, uh, and it was a much smaller library, but again, you know, something that ended up being the standard and something that changed the quality, uh, uh, of doing which, and how the programs are written. And that is boost, uh, well, and I'm gonna butcher it, and so I'll have to, [00:29:00] you have to correct me.

[00:29:01] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I think it's Tuple. Uh, so Boost Tuple came out of. Kind of an artifact was of Boost Lamda. In order to implement Boost Lamda, uh, uh, they had to first implement Boost Tuple and that tiny little library, uh, effectively change how people write C++ code because it, what it allowed [00:29:30] you to do is to return and well most, mostly to return multiple values from a function, uh, without creating an explicit structure for it.

[00:29:43] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, and, uh, it basically took a thing that was kind of wanky and awkward, uh, and turned it into easy and elegant. And so then, you know, something that people before has, people [00:30:00] hesitated doing it before because it was, you know, wanky and, and elegant. And now, uh, it was easy and elegant and people started doing it more and more and, you know, and suddenly there was like a, like, almost like a different style of writing code and all, you know, thanks to a library that overall, you know, was probably, I don't know, maybe 400 lines of code.

[00:30:24] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So, you know, not a very large library. So another one goes back to Indiana [00:30:30] too. Uh, is boost function also a very similar, you know, in, in nature. So C++ already had, you know, a notion of a function pointer, which is a way of, you know, passing around functions. But it, it just wasn't universal enough and, and it was kind of frowned upon like that.

[00:30:51] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** It, it, it. It just wasn't ergonomic enough. People would use it for specific use case, but it wasn't like a universal tool that, you know, that [00:31:00] that, that, that was, uh, uh, just widely accepted. And then, uh, so Boost function took that problem and, you know, gave people a way to pass around any type of function, uh, that they could pass around.

[00:31:17] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And again, not a very, and, and what was notable about it is, uh, there were libraries outside of Boost that tackled that problem before, and a couple of them, [00:31:30] uh, and so like in a way you could argue, well, it was a solved problem, but it really wasn't because the trade-offs that were made in Boost, uh, were more carefully considered.

[00:31:43] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And I think in the end, the, the, the boost function than up. Kind of like striking the balance that most C++ engineers or C++ developers, they would, you know, they would look at it and they're like, you know what? Actually this is good. I'm [00:32:00] gonna use this. Whereas, you know, the libraries that existed before, maybe like, ah, yeah, that's a really neat idea, but it, it costs too much.

[00:32:09] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You know, like there is a cost associated like runtime cost or, you know, memory cost. So Doug Gregor, um, would be another, you know, very, uh, prominent person that I would highlight. And, and, and, and the funny thing that happened, you know, with the, was with a lot of [00:32:30] those, boost wide is like they built on top of each other.

[00:32:34] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, so like, you know, boost function, uh, allows you to pass around, you know, functions. Uh, including those factors that you could create this, you know, this Boost Lambda. Uh, and so now you have, you know, an easy way to create, uh, small functions and an easy way to pass them around. And those things combine together, enable, you know, different [00:33:00] type of, uh, expressions and, and, you know, a slightly different style, you know, a little bit different styles of programming that, that, that, that weren't prevalent before.

[00:33:11] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, before Boost Lambda, uh, there was Boost Bind and I think which was an extension of something that already existed, you know, in a standard library, but kind generalization and, and, and, you know, just more elegant and more, more general. And that was, [00:33:30] um, Peter Dimov's contribution, one of the think first of his contributions, uh, that I think in a large way, uh, pay.

[00:33:40] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Paved the road for, you know, Boost Lamda acceptance. Uh, 'cause it was kind of like a mini version of Boost Lamda. Um, and, and, and, but, uh, the interesting, you know, uh, relationship to me, the, the, the, the interrelationship between those libraries and how, you know, one [00:34:00] built on top of another, uh, is something that was facilitated by the fact that this was all happening in the same mailing list, you know, in the same forum with kind of the same group of people.

[00:34:13] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** 'cause as I mentioned, you know, a lot of those ideas, they, you know, they existed in one form or another, you know, floating out there on the internet. Uh, there was a, uh, you know, there was a, uh, open source library that predated boost [00:34:30] function that was a precursor to it. There was, uh, a library that predated boost bind, you know, there was.

[00:34:37] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Um, and attempts of something like Boost Lambda, I think. Uh, but they weren't really, you know, they were disjoint efforts and, and the authors weren't collaborating with each other and they weren't building on top of each other's work. Whereas in Boost, you know, people, the authors of those libraries were, you know, uh, exchanging ideas.

[00:34:59] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** We were [00:35:00] talking in the same place. We were making sure that they work well together. Uh, and then there was a, uh, you know, a peer review process that really, uh, like enabled the, set a high standard for, you know, what's considered a complete library that we can, you know, put a boost stamp on. My view is that the STL in many ways, well, I, I mean, I think it's actually [00:35:30] probably.

[00:35:30] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Indisputable. I, I would say that SDL changed the course of C++ the way people started writing C++ called, you know, after STL becomes standardized and, you know, and the way they were writing it before, those are almost two different languages. Some people say, might say, you know, it's a stretch.

[00:35:52] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** But I, I, I truly believe with that, the, you know, the, you if, if you, if you show, you know, uh, [00:36:00] uh, skilled C++ developer, you know, if you show them a piece of code and you say, is this in spirit of STL? It'll be a very easy judgment for them to make. You know, yes, this is in spirit of STL, this is not, so there's, you know, almost like two categories of code.

[00:36:19] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Like one is, you know, very object, heavy interface, heavy help out together, uh, solves a specific. [00:36:30] Problem and only that problem. And another is, um, uh, basically what's, you know, called genetic programming, which I think is a term that, you know, mostly originated or got, got popularized by, by C++. Uh, and that's squarely, you know, s STLs achievement, you know, the fact STL uh, [00:37:00] showed the world that you can ride generic code, um, that has the flexibility and performance of handwritten, you know, uh, handwritten code, but, you know, is decoupled from the specific, you know, task at hand, which is typically when you write handwritten code.

[00:37:22] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You know, that, that that wouldn't be the case. So like this concept, you know, this concept of. Uh, [00:37:30] generic programming and, uh, using, uh, templates and to make the library work, you know, possibly for the scenarios that haven't been foreseen by the author and also the type of library there, there is a shorter type of library design, uh, or, or, you know, the why design philosophy that STL exemplified [00:38:00] and boost basically, you know, inherited and, and took on.

[00:38:05] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And so when, you know, when the Boost Library guidelines, they said, you know, we solicit libraries that work well with the Standard library. Really what it meant, we solicit libraries that work well with the STL and, uh, designed, you know, with a philosophy of STL grew up in, uh, Siberia, Russia. Uh, in, uh, big [00:38:30] town, uh, about 1 million people called Kresnares.

[00:38:33] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, my, uh, mom, uh, is a teacher, history teacher, and my dad, um, he is, you know, a skilled factory worker. Okay. Is there a better term for that? Like he, you know, he like assembled, um, uh, he assembled like TVs and, and, and [00:39:00] electronics. Electronics that, yeah. Like that type of thing. Okay. Um, it just sounds un dignified.

[00:39:12] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Yeah. Skilled factory worker. So C++ was my fourth program in language. So, you know, I learned to program when I was. But 11 years old. And I learned the program on basic, which is a whole different story. Uh, and then my second program in language was [00:39:30] actually machine code. Uh, that was when I learned, you know, that basic wasn't performant enough to, you know, to, to, uh, basically create games, which, you know, which is what I wanted to do.

[00:39:40] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Like any kid who learn to program wants to write a game. Uh, so I learned machine code and then, uh, I learned Pascal as, um, uh, at my first year in the university. And I also learned c uh, at my first year of [00:40:00] university. And C++ was, you know, my step up from, from from c it wasn't actually required for a class.

[00:40:09] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, and, um, I, I, I kind of have a funny story about it. So, at the time, so it was, uh, 1993, uh. Um, most of the C++ compilers, uh, are also c compilers, you know, because C++ tech [00:40:30] is kind of a super set of C or, you know, can be considered a super set of C. And so, uh, in school when we used c we would use, you know, a c compiler, but technically it's a C++ compiler.

[00:40:43] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, but, uh, I wasn't actually using C++. I, you know, I was c uh, and just, uh, it just happened to be a C++ compiler. Um, uh, I was working on a library, or not on a library. I [00:41:00] was working on a, uh, I think a Sprite editor was the program that I was working on. And, um, someone who was, uh, two years ahead of me and, uh, was working at this lab at the university, uh, they were really intrigued, but.

[00:41:16] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** By what I was doing. And they, they, they thought it was cool, uh, but I wasn't satisfied, uh, with the performance of, of certain operations. And, uh, [00:41:30] uh, they, uh, said, well, you know, uh, you should use object oriented programming. And, um, it kind of blew my mind because first of all, I've never heard of object oriented programming before.

[00:41:44] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, you know, as a, as a, uh, know it all, first year CS major, you know, I, I was like, what is something that I don't know, uh, you know, I gotta find out what it is. And second of all, I, I was just, uh, intrigued by this idea [00:42:00] that, you know, if I use this mysterious objectory engine, then, then it's gonna make my, you know, my program faster.

[00:42:07] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And so, uh, I went out and I, uh, bought a book on. Object. I think it was literally called object oriented program in the C++. Uh, and that was my first book on C++. Uh, the funniest part about that story is that person actually had no idea what they were talking about. Uh, [00:42:30] because, you know, uh, making a program object, it would, if anything, it would, has a potential of making awo, you know, at least for, for the thing that I was trying to do.

[00:42:41] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So, you know, he was just trying to show off. His, you know, knowledge of something that, you know, that he didn't really have. But that was my, you know, that was my trigger for, for going and learning C++. Well, what I really, I think the, there isn't so many people have a affinity for c [00:43:00] plus was, or, you know, like some of them, you know, they truly, they truly love the languages.

[00:43:05] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** It's ex I I think it's, it's expressive power. You know, it, it's, it's kind of the, the similar thing that was, I was alluding to, you know, this meta programming where on one hand, you know, it's a very practical language, uh, that allows you to write high performance efficient programs. And on the other hand, it sell, [00:43:30] uh, the language that allows you to, you know, if you, if you, the kind of person who cares about the stuff allows you to express your thoughts at the level that you.

[00:43:43] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You know, pretty close to the world that you truly want to express yourself and you almost pay no penalty for this. And that is a very, you know, unique thing for a language. There are a lot of languages that allow [00:44:00] you to, you know, to, there are a lot of expressive languages out there that allow you to, you know, to express yourself, uh, eloquently and efficiently and beautifully, but you pay price for it that oftentimes make this language, you know, not suitable for, you know, for a certain type of applications.

[00:44:24] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Especially, you know, performance critical applications. Like, like say a browser, right? Like why [00:44:30] the majority of browsers are written on C++? Well, because, you know, it's a foundational type of software that you know, that, that, that, that needs to be, uh. Performance and memory efficient on one hand, but you know why they're not written and c or because the, you know, the level of abstraction that you can get with C++ while keeping, you know, the performance edge is just, you know, is just miles and miles, uh, [00:45:00] over what C can offer.

[00:45:02] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, and it's, you know, in many ways C++ allows you, you know, to just simply just write, you know, beautiful code. You know that the one thing that C++, how do I put it? The one thing that makes C++ stand out from, you know, from the languages that are typically used to write commercial software is that it allows you to express your thoughts elegantly [00:45:30] and efficiently.

[00:45:31] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And in some cases, you know, almost politicly. And that's a quality that, you know, at the time wasn't really. Valued. And I think that's actually changed in the recent years. I think beyond, you know, as a language designer, he actually valued this kind of thing. And that's reflected in the language through my whole, you know, uh, period of where I was an active Boost contributor.

[00:45:58] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, I was, [00:46:00] uh, working at a company, uh, called Meta Communications, um, uh, where, you know, the majority of our software was built with C plus was. And so I was living and breathing C++, you know, uh, 10, 12 hours a day. I was, you know, very much, uh, in office doing, which, um, which is, was the primarily reason, you know, why I took this job is 'cause I, you know, it gave me [00:46:30] the opportunity to, uh, work with CPOs was I was living in Iowa City, Iowa.

[00:46:37] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, I think the reason Boost MPL came about was, uh, there was, there was, I mean, if I, I think if I didn't, if I didn't come up with Boost mpl l then some tor, some sort of meta programming library, uh, would have been proposed to be a part of Boost. You know, maybe not, you know, in this year, but two [00:47:00] years later or there was something in the air, uh, that, you know, the, the kind, the combination of knowledge and, um, the, uh, sense that, hey, we got a formalize this, you know, this bag of tricks that we are using over and over again into, you know, some coherent algebra and system and, you know, and, and library.

[00:47:28] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** So, so it, [00:47:30] you know, so it becomes a little bit more than bag of tricks and, you know, and it, and it has more. Rhyme and the reason to it, and you know, and it's just more ergonomic and, and, uh, it's just easier to use. I think the formal reviews are definitely was one of the standout features of Boost. And, and, and, and, and also one of the things that, you know, uh, one of the reasons why so many boost fibers have [00:48:00] exceptional, you know, exceptional quality for Boost MPL specifically.

[00:48:06] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I honestly, I was kind of dreading the review, uh, because there were definitely a lot of complexity to MPL, uh, that, you know, I personally felt was justified, but I wasn't sure, you know, if the community as a whole, you know, shares the same view, some of the sentiment [00:48:30] expressed interviews. Definitely, definitely.

[00:48:31] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** That was probably, you know, the biggest criticism. Or not maybe criticism, but you know, doubt ex expressed. It's like, well, this is really cool, but maybe you're going a little bit overboard with this. Uh, which again, you know, I, I, I, I, I didn't feel like that at the time. Um, I honestly will have to go back and read.

[00:48:58] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I didn't feel like I was, I don't [00:49:00] know, you know, you know, sometimes, sometimes you don't think you are being a position or defensive, and then 10 years later you read it and you're like, oh my God. You know, such, such a, such a bra. Uh, I, I think the overall sentiment was, let's get this in because this is such a foundational work.

[00:49:22] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And the yes, you know, it may be a little bit complex, but you know, it's a, [00:49:30] it's a, we already, the, we were already that we were. You know, built on top of it that we were enabled by it. And it had probably like, the most important factor that that pushed, pushed the reviews in its favor was that I, I managed to make it work on the most, uh, widely used compiler at the time, which was Microsoft Visual C++ [00:50:00] 6.0 6.5, uh, which was notorious for not allowing, you know, like any sort of advanced meta programming.

[00:50:10] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** It was just crash, you know, it was just refused to compile with a cryptic care and, uh, you could spend hours, you know, trying to make it compile. And, you know, it was, um, people perceived it as fruitless. I think that, if I remember correctly, uh. [00:50:30] We got it through a review, uh, on the first try. But there was a, it was a conditional acceptance, uh, ba based on, I don't know if it was necessarily phrased this way, but, uh, at the time of the formal review, it did not have a reference documentation, uh, which is for, you know, for the library of that size was basically [00:51:00] unacceptable because, uh, you could get started with it, but if there's no reference documentation, you really, you know, you really can't explore the whole library because the get, you know, getting started guide only, only can covers, you know, it gets you in the door, but it doesn't really cover like, the range of what's possible.

[00:51:19] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** No, not really because I mean, I did know that we need, you know, that we need reference documentation. Uh, and there was, you know, there was also what was. [00:51:30] You know, happening in the background is we were writing a book, so David [ Abrahams] and I, we were writing a book about, uh, MPL and, uh, we knew that, you know, for the book to be successful, or, you know, for people who read the book, they, David would also need reference documentation.

[00:51:51] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, um, it was basically a matter of time and, you know, that, that, uh, people were eager to get [00:52:00] MPL into boost and it was put in a review queue, you know, before it was quote unquote ready. Uh, uh, just because the need for such a library was such a, you know, pressing need that, you know, um, uh, it, it, it, it was reviewed before its time, if you will.

[00:52:20] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And I had trouble making an MPL work, you know, I ran into exact same issue as, you know, as, as countless people before me, and. Uh, [00:52:30] I was, you know, I was ready to give up and declare, okay, MPL is not gonna work on this, you know, this, this compiler. Um, but I just couldn't let it go. And, you know, and I spent weeks trying to find a workaround for this problem.

[00:52:49] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I remember to this day, like the moment when I did find the workaround, because it was 4:00 AM in the morning, and, uh, I saw [00:53:00] this error message from a compiler, you know, probably for the hundredth time, uh, that exact same message that you, that you get in response to this particular error. But at this time, something clicked in my head where, uh, I, I was like, well, it's saying that it cannot, you know, compile this because something, something about, something about inte integer.

[00:53:24] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And I was like, well, could it be. That when it's [00:53:30] instantiating a template, which you know, is not how compiler should work and completely not standard compliant, but could it be that when it's trying to instantiate a template, it's using this dummy value of ink or dummy type of integer, uh, just as a, you know, kind of like a hack inside of the compiler and, and then it kind of snowballs from [00:54:00] there, you know, it's already doing what it shouldn't be and, you know, and then it counters the situation in which it cannot handle it.

[00:54:08] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, and so like this, so I went and I tried this hypothesis like, is this what actually happens? And I, you know, and basically, uh, wrote an equivalent of something like, oh, well if it's trying to pass an integer, just ignore the whole thing. You know, just don't do anything because it shouldn't be passing an integer in the first place.

[00:54:26] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And amazingly. That actually worked. [00:54:30] Like all of a sudden I had a workaround for, you know, that, that, that, that solved like the whole class of problems that stopped MPL from, from, from working on this compiler, or I couldn't believe my eyes, uh, you know, that I literally spent weeks trying to make it work.

[00:54:47] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** And, uh, I mean, I I, at that point I didn't think that I can make it work. It was just, you know, you just look to the camera. It was just, uh, stop warn us and, you know, [00:55:00] just plain OCD you know, I was, I was just, just, I'm gonna, I'm gonna continue doing this 'cause, 'cause maybe I can find something. Um, but that, you know, that that suddenly state of the Microsoft compiler was one thing that was effectively dividing the C++ community.

[00:55:26] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** You know, or fragmenting it, because there were people who were [00:55:30] using, uh, uh, other compilers who were much more standard compliant. But one of the main reasons, you know, or one of the reasons people use C++ is so that they compile the, can compile the same code for multiple platforms. You know, so you can compile the same code for Mac and Windows.

[00:55:52] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Say, well, if your primary compiler for Windows cannot compile your MAC code, that means that you're gonna, [00:56:00] you know, the way you write your quote unquote MAC code is gonna be limited not by your Mac compiler, but by your Windows compiler. I think the, probably the biggest impact of MPL is that it, you know, it made meta programming in C++ in particular, it made it accessible to, you know, to a wider audience of people.

[00:56:26] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, audience of library authors [00:56:30] and it enabled, you know, creation of the libraries that might have been possible before, but, you know, would have been much harder. It made it, it made it much more easier. And, um, I think the, like for me personally, there were a couple of libraries that I really, uh, I was really, it it really warm my heart to, you know, to know that MPL enabled them.

[00:56:54] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, one of them, uh, is Boost Spirit, which is a [00:57:00] parser generator that uses, that allows you basically to write a formal grammar and get a parcel for it. And another one is, um, boost multi index. Uh, which it's hard to describe what that, what it is, but it's, it's really, really, really neat to library that, you know, when I, when I teach C++, I, I, I always make sure to, to point to that.

[00:57:25] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, the main reason I, uh, ended up [00:57:30] slowly. I, I, you know, I didn't, I didn't really, uh, my participation in boost didn't really, you know, happen or it didn't decrease overnight. It was more, uh, gradual or mostly related to, you know, to the changes that were happening at work where, uh, I just was writing more and more JavaScript, um, and less and less C++ because, you know, my [00:58:00] attention was now in a different language.

[00:58:03] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** As much as I loved C++, uh, like the problems that I was solving, you know, they weren't C++ problems and therefore, you know, I wasn't, I wasn't as motivated to, um, go and, um, spend my free times, free time to contribute. To a language that I love but don't really, you know, use as much on a [00:58:30] daily basis.

[00:58:31] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** My gradual disengagement from Boost was, was, you know, was like, definitely felt like, uh, end of an error. The, but also there were things happening to boost itself, which, I mean, I think there were many reasons for it, but it kind of happened gradually, but clustered in the same couple of years where, um, original core contributors, they moved the way, you know, to [00:59:00] do something else and then new people stepped in and, uh, it didn't decrease the overall energy, you know, of what, what was going on with, with, with the project.

[00:59:12] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** But it was, yeah, it was kind of a change of guard, if you will. Um. Yeah, but I, you know, I de I definitely, because the relationships were, you know, mostly about shared life of, you know, of language and shared [00:59:30] passion for it, and, you know, uh, uh, exchange of ideas centered around this, this, this whole thing. Uh, once, you know, we, each of us got busy with, you know, with, with different things.

[00:59:46] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Then, uh, those, uh, relationships, they, they kind of, uh, faded away with time as well. I walked it up, uh, you know, as we started talking, uh, [01:00:00] about this documentary and, um, I, I wasn't following it. Uh, I think overall, uh, C++ is probably, you know, facing some tough competition from, and. Uh, you know, there were, I would say not entirely justified, but, you know, calls for, stop using C++ because it's quote unquote unsafe language because it [01:00:30] allows you, you know, to shoot yourself in the foot with, with pointers and, you know, direct memory manipulation.

[01:00:37] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Uh, and, but I think it had an effect on universities and, and, you know, what is being taught to people coming into, uh, computer science. The, the one thing that I, you know, I, I, I didn't have, I didn't explicitly say yet, is that I think one of the, uh, main [01:01:00] reasons the Boost Project succeeded and, you know, became what it became and, you know, and was such a, had such an outsized impact was, uh, specifically because.

[01:01:16] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** How it was, uh, stewarded by Beman. Um, he, you know, his, um, way of[01:01:30] 

[01:01:32] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** the culture that he established and his way of, uh, pushing people forward, you know, very gently and resolving conflicts and prompting people to continue work on, you know, on the things that, that they were working and maybe they, you know, was a little bit of interest. And, you know, his, his just encouragement and support and his kindness.

[01:01:58] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** To me, it was [01:02:00] one of the things that, that always stood out. Uh, and, uh, it, it, it's, I, I don't. I don't think the boost would be as successful as, you know, in attracting all the talent that they did attract, uh, if, if, you know, if not from Beman. 

[01:02:23] **RAY NOWOSIELSKI:** So that was, that was a key part of the secret sauce, 

[01:02:27] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I think so, I, I think, yeah, I think [01:02:30] the personalities, uh, that, that were involved in general were, you know, were a big part of it.

[01:02:35] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** Like, you know, they were all very talented people, but not, you know, not full of themselves that, uh, you know, that had strong opinions, but were willing to listen. And again, as I mentioned, you know, um, the, the, your work was, was judged on your, [01:03:00] um, you know, on its own merit and not, not, you know, on any credentials or, um, any sort of status.

[01:03:09] **ALEKSEY GURTOVOY:** I think. I think I learned it on Twitter. Um, and it was a, uh, I, I'm pretty sure it was at least a couple of months after, after it happened, and I was, yeah, I was really shocked and sad that, uh, it happened and I, I didn't.

